docs: Introduce integration guides (#586)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/integration/jaeger/README.md

# Integrate with Jaeger

## Overview

The following instructions outline how to use [Jaeger](https://github.com/jaegertracing/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/jaeger) as a tracing backend with Kyma's [TracePipeline](../../03-traces.md).

## Prerequisites

> - Kyma version 2.10 or higher as the target deployment environment

Reviewer: The prerequisites have changed somehow. You need a kubernetes cluster with the telemetry module installed/enabled. Somehow that is even known implicit that you need the telemetry module as we are in the related documentation..

Author: Alright, adjusting the 1st line.

If the procedure won't work without the module, then enabling the module is a prerequisite. 
The doc must make sense even if it stands alone, not only in the context of the surrounding documentation.

- kubectl version 1.22.x or higher
- Helm 3.x

## Installation

### Preparation

1. Export your Namespace as a variable. Replace the `{namespace}` placeholder in the following command and run it:

    ```bash
    export K8S_NAMESPACE="{namespace}"
    ```

1. Export the Helm release name that you want to use. The release name must be unique for the chosen Namespace. Be aware that all resources in the cluster will be prefixed with that name. Run the following command:

    ```bash
    export HELM_JAEGER_RELEASE="jaeger"
    ```

1. Update your Helm installation with the required Helm repository:

    ```bash
    helm repo add jaegertracing https://jaegertracing.github.io/helm-charts
    helm repo update
    ```

### Install Jaeger

> **NOTE:** It is officially recommended to install Jaeger with the [Jaeger operator](https://github.com/jaegertracing/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/jaeger-operator). Because the operator requires a cert-manager to be installed, the following instructions use a plain Jaeger installation. However, the described installation is not meant to be used for production setups.

Run the Helm upgrade command, which installs the chart if not present yet.

```bash

> helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n $K8S_NAMESPACE $HELM_JAEGER_RELEASE jaegertracing/jaeger -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/examples/main/jaeger/values.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm upgrade --install --create-namespace -n $K8S_NAMESPACE $HELM_JAEGER_RELEASE jaegertracing/jaeger -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/main/docs/user/integration/jaeger/values.yaml
```

```

You can either use the [`values.yaml`](./values.yaml) provided in this `jaeger` folder, which contains customized settings deviating from the default settings, or create your own `values.yaml` file.

### Verify the installation

Check if the `jaeger` Pod was successfully created in the Namespace and is in the `Running` state:

```bash
kubectl -n $K8S_NAMESPACE rollout status deploy $HELM_JAEGER_RELEASE
```

### Activate a TracePipeline

> To configure the Kyma trace collector with the deployed Jaeger instance as the backend. To create a new [TracePipeline](https://kyma-project.io/#/telemetry-manager/user/03-traces), execute the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the Kyma trace collector with the deployed Jaeger instance as the backend. To create a new [TracePipeline](../../03-traces.md), execute the following command:
```

kind: TracePipeline
metadata:
  name: jaeger
spec:
  output:
    otlp:
      protocol: http
      endpoint:
        value: http://$HELM_JAEGER_RELEASE-collector.$K8S_NAMESPACE.svc.cluster.local:4318
EOF
```
  
### Activate Istio Tracing

To [enable Istio](../../03-traces.md#step-2-enable-istio-tracing) to report span data, apply an Istio telemetry resource and set the sampling rate to 100%. This approach is not recommended for production.

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: telemetry.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: Telemetry
metadata:
  name: tracing-default
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  tracing:
  - providers:
    - name: "kyma-traces"
    randomSamplingPercentage: 100.00
EOF
```

### Access Jaeger

1. To access Jaeger using port forwarding, run:

   ```bash
   kubectl -n $K8S_NAMESPACE port-forward svc/$HELM_JAEGER_RELEASE-query 16686
   ```

2. Open the Jaeger UI in your browser under `http://localhost:16686`.

### Deploy a workload and activate Kyma's TracePipeline feature

To see distributed traces visualized in Jaeger, follow the instructions for the [OpenTelemetry Demo App](../opentelemetry-demo/README.md).

## Advanced Topics

### Integrate with Grafana

> Jaeger can be provided as a data source integrated into Grafana. For example, it can be part of a Grafana installation as described in the [Prometheus tutorial](./../prometheus/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jaeger can be provided as a data source integrated into Grafana. For example, it can be part of a Grafana installation as described in the [Prometheus tutorial](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/prometheus).
```

Reviewer: No, not for now as this example has no relation to the telemetry module yet
